feat(examples,metrics,kube-state-metrics): add configmap and promethe… (#10919)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/metrics/proc_metrics-custom-resource-monitoring.adoc

The example files include a configuration file for a KSM deployment

* `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/ksm.yaml`

NOTE: Update the namespace by replacing the example `myproject` with your own:
+
On Linux, use:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
sed -E -i '/[[:space:]]\*namespace: [a-zA-Z0-9-]*$/s/namespace:[[:space:]]\*[a-zA-Z0-9-]*$/namespace: _myproject_/' examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/ksm.yaml
+
On MacOS, use:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
sed -i '' -e '/[[:space:]]\*namespace: [a-zA-Z0-9-]*$/s/namespace:[[:space:]]\*[a-zA-Z0-9-]*$/namespace: _myproject_/' examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/ksm.yaml
+

Strimzi also provides xref:ref-metrics-custom-resource-monitoring-{context}[example configuration ConfigMap for KSM].

* `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/configmap.yaml`

This procedure uses the example KSM deployment and configuration file.

.Prerequisites
* xref:assembly-metrics-prometheus-{context}[Prometheus and Prometheus Alertmanager are deployed]

.Procedure

. Deploy KSM.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
kubectl apply -f configmap.yaml
kubectl apply -f ksm.yaml

> After deploying KSM, you can check that all of these metrics get scraped by Prometheus via the provided `ServiceMonitor` in order to act on in Prometheus.
> 
> Please check the provided `PrometheusRule` resources for alerting on these metrics:
> 
> * `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/prometheus-rules.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that Prometheus is scraping KSM metrics.
+
Metrics are scraped from the `strimzi-kube-state-metrics` service using the `ServiceMonitor` configured for the KSM deployment.
+
For alerting on these metrics, check the provided `PrometheusRule` resources:
+
* `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/prometheus-rules.yaml`
```

Reviewer: I thought this could be a second step

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// metrics/assembly_metrics-custom-resource-monitoring.adoc

[id='proc-metrics-custom-resource-monitoring-{context}']

= Custom resource monitoring

[role="_abstract"]
Use kube-state-metrics to provide custom resource monitoring.
link:https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/[Kube-state-metrics^](KSM) is a scalable Kubernetes native service which listens to the Kubernetes API server and generates metrics about the state of the objects.
Strimzi provides monitoring for the following custom resources via KSM: `KafkaUser` and `KafkaTopic`.

You can use your own KSM deployment or deploy KSM using the xref:assembly-metrics-config-files-{context}[example metrics configuration files] provided by Strimzi.
The example files include a configuration file for a KSM deployment

> * `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/ksm.yaml`

Reviewer 2: AFAICS this YAML contains some cluster role binding with a specific namespace "myproject". If the user is deploying in a different one, it's not going to work, or? 
We have the same issue when installing the operator but we provide the `sed` command to replace the namespace with the right one. Should we write something similar here?

Author: I've taken some inspiration from the Prometheus installation and added some lines. In addition I changed the namespace to have a similar `sed` command.

Reviewer 3: I think the sed command is good. But the namespace in the files should probably default to `myproject` as that is what we use in the other YAMLs by default.

Author: Thanks. Updated 👍🏻

Strimzi also provides xref:ref-metrics-custom-resource-monitoring-{context}[example configuration ConfigMap for KSM].

* `examples/metrics/kube-state-metrics/configmap.yaml`

This procedure uses the example KSM deployment and configuration file.

.Prerequisites
* xref:assembly-metrics-prometheus-{context}[Prometheus and Prometheus Alertmanager are deployed]

.Procedure

. Deploy KSM.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
kubectl apply -f configmap.yaml
kubectl apply -f ksm.yaml

. Get the details of the KSM service.
+
[source,shell]
----
kubectl get service strimzi-kube-state-metrics
----
+
For example:
+
[table,stripes=none]
|===
|NAME     |TYPE      |CLUSTER-IP    |PORT(S)

|strimzi-kube-state-metrics  |ClusterIP |172.40.156.40 |8080/TCP
|===
+
Note the port number for port forwarding.

. Use `port-forward` to redirect the KSM metrics endpoint to `localhost:8080`:
+
[source,shell]
----
kubectl port-forward svc/strimzi-kube-state-metrics 8080:8080
----

> . In a web browser, access the KSM metrics page using the URL `http://localhost:8080/metrics`.

Reviewer 2: the specific above steps related to the port-forward are referring to a deployment using minikube or something similar I guess. They should be not needed if the user is using a Kubernetes cluster somewhere else (i.e. AKS, ...). Not sure we want this part.

Author: Part is removed.
